[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I describe meditation as
paying undistractible attention
to reality--
capital R, not
passing phenomena.
And so you establish your
intention to wake up,
to expand your awareness
to who and what you are.
And so the moment
of meditation is
when you have that moment
of connectedness to life
and you learn how to pay
undistractible attention to it.
And what happens is
all manner of debris--
thought forms, whatever may
be flowing through your mind--
but you're learning to have
dominion over your attention,
so that as the
insight is occurring,
you're able to be
aware of it and have
a level of
stabilization around it.
So that's meditation.
Now, there are many, let's
say, techniques of meditation.
But primarily, meditation
is about paying
undistractible
attention to reality.
So you have
contemplative meditation.
You have existential meditation.
You have spiritual meditation.
Contemplative meditation
is when you read,
you read Rumi, you read Dr.
Howard Thurman, you read--
and you contemplate it,
meditate it until you get--
you distill the
truths out of it.
It becomes a part of
you, ooh, you know?
And then there's existential
meditation, where
you meditate on your existence.
Why am I here?
Who am I?
You know, the W's--
who am I, why am I, where
am I, when am I, you know,
until you start to be
taught not just to believe,
but you start to have
an insight, who am I?
I'm an emanation
of the great what?
What am I?
I'm a unique expression
of the holy presence.
Why am I?
To reflect and to
reveal this presence,
according to my uniqueness.
When am I?
Right now.
You know, so that's existential.
And the spiritual
meditation is when you're
meditating simply to wake up.
You know, you're establishing
your intention to wake up,
to have a greater
realization of your oneness
with life, whether you call
life "god" or "the presence"
or "love" or "intelligence."
But whatever the technique
is, it's fundamental.
It's fundamental.
And then affirmative prayer
is not begging or beseeching.
You're actually praying to
have a realization of what
you're praying for.
You already have it.
You see?
So we enter into a
state of gratitude.
And then we begin to recognize
the presence that's everywhere.
We begin to feel our
unity with this presence.
And then we proclaim
or declare what
is so, whether it's about
our abundance or our health.
We give thanks that
it's already done,
and we release it into the law.
It becomes our new law of being.
Now, of course I went through
those stages very fast.
But the individual
would sit and actually
pray to have that awareness.
There's the life
visioning process,
the process by which we use to
bring agape into incarnation.
Nonprofits and corporations
and individuals
use the life visioning
process all around the world
to actually get a sense of,
what is it within us that's
trying to come forward?
It's different
from visualization.
Visualization is
a good practice.
It's an entry-level practice
of seeing what you want,
feeling it, declaring
it, articulating it,
coming into a resonance
with it until it manifests.
But oftentimes, people
are visualizing things
that society told them they
should want to be happy.
Assuming they get it,
they're not happy.
So visioning is different.
Visioning is an
awareness that there's
something intrinsic
within you that no one
else has the way you have it.
And so you're-- going back to
empowering questions, you know,
you're able to ask,
what is the vision?
And you sit until
you're able to feel
it or hear it or articulate it.
You ask, what is it
that I need to become
to manifest this vision?
That's growing edge.
How do I-- where do I
need to grow in my life?
What do I already have that can
be in service to the vision?
What do I need to let go
of that no longer serves
my moving forward, to tap
into a sense of willingness?
This is all a part
of the life visioning
process, which is saying, in
substance, you take an avocado
seed.
The avocado seed can't become
a daffodil, a magnolia.
What's intrinsic to the avocado
seed is an avocado tree.
So there's something within
us that's intrinsic within us.
And we ask until we begin
to see, what is my gift?
What is my passion?
What is it?
And we walk in that direction.
So life visioning
is very important.
You want to develop a
practice of high conversation.
You don't want to
talk about what
you don't want to experience.
So that eliminates gossip.
It eliminates
complaining, you see?
And you begin to
have conversations
with high-minded people
about vision and possibility,
or you be quiet, you know?
You don't get caught in the
rough-and-tumble nastiness
that human beings get caught
up in talking about each other,
putting people down, or tearing
people apart, or passing rumors
along.
That dirt is going to
get on the person that's
doing that, you see?
And so there's
right conversation.
So there's all manner of
spiritual practice, you see?
Affirmation and
declaration, and it's
all a part of honing
our attention so we're
able to see better, so
we're not just seeing life
through the filters that we've
inherited from the imprints,
but we're starting
to see life as it is.
It's pristine.
It's beautiful.
It's luminous.
It's full of infinite
possibilities,
infinite opportunities.
We can just see
it the way it is.
And then we walk
in that direction.
Things appear.
Opportunities show up.
Doors open.
We meet the right people
at the right time,
the divine conspiracy.
We become a part of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]